i'm going to begin this discussion by  reading you aloud what i would consider  the single most ancient  and influential  anti-semitic conspiracy theory in the  history of europe in the history of the  western world  and i'm going to ask you to reflect on  your own education  in primary school in high school in as  much as your formal education even  mentioned  judaism  and jewishness in the history of europe  the united states or what have you to  what extent  your own instructors were themselves  also  victims of or purveyors of  this peculiar anti-semitic conspiracy  theory i'm going to quote you something  from the 13th century  quote  if a man dies owing money to jews  his wife may have her dower and pay  nothing toward the debt from it  if he leaves children that are under age  their needs may also be provided for on  a scale appropriate to the size of his  holding of lands  the debt is to be paid out of the  residue  reserving the service due to his feudal  lords  debts owed to person other than jews are  to be dealt with  similarly  the text i am quoting to you  is the magna carta  what is normally referred to as the  first  and perhaps only  constitution of england  or the british isles  if you read the magna carta  from beginning to end  you might expect the issue of  multiculturalism or shall we say  relations between different ethnicities  to at least mention  the scottish  the people of cornwall  the welsh  the difference between yorkshire men and  southerners  the myriad ethnically and linguistically  distinctive groups that at that time  the british isles were separated to if  you don't know  in the year  1215 people in wales the people in  cornwall spoke very different languages  within walking distance of london  england you were dealing with mutually  unintelligible dialects this is well  attested for history  there is no discussion of  there is no mention of  any ethnicity other than  the jews  and yet the jews  this infinitesimally  tiny minority  within england are mentioned  emphatically  again and again  and throughout the magna carta as you  heard in that  passage  there is this notion  that jews are the people who invented  banking in europe there's this implicit  assumption that when speaking of banking  of debts of transactions of this kind of  loans and of collecting interest  one would be  speaking  of the jews  now  i'm asking you to reflect  in your own education in primary school  in high school in university  in as much as your parents told you  anything about the history of europe the  history of judaism or the history of  anti-semitism per se within the history  of the western world  this might be the only thing anyone ever  told you it might well be that you grew  up being told that the reason for  anti-semitism was in fact that the  jewish people had this unique and  powerful connection to  the charging of interest  usury and banking between the year  1200  and 1600.  what was the greatest center of banking  in europe who were  the great innovators  in the economic history of europe was it  jerusalem  was it um the overseas jewish community  of athens  i mean where  were these great banks that the jews as  they're called  in the magna carta  were operating  in fact  from the year  1200 to the year 1600  the great center of banking  in europe  was  italy  the single greatest center of banking  was  genoa and genoa was in direct  competition with  venice and florence  there's more than one  really strange source of bias here  one is simply this propensity to  be fascinated with jews and the roles of  jewish people in the history of europe  which we're going to talk about further  in this video and the other  which seems more strange to me as i get  deeper into my middle age years is this  strange tendency to delete and diminish  the historical significance of italy  it's as if we only want italy to be  important in the period of ancient rome  and then for italy's importance to  suddenly end and disappear without a  trace thereafter right uh  i don't know this sense that in rome  everything good is dead and everything  dead is good and that i don't know  shortly after the death of julius caesar  there's nothing more to be said about  say anything in italy uh rome  specifically or more broadly including  places like genoa  the less said the better  well guess what you know if you make a  list of the crucial innovations in the  history of banking in europe when they  were first done and where it was that  the millions of dollars were being moved  that the really big money  happened genoa  is going to be number one on your list  but it's not the genoese  it's not the christians  of italy of of florence of you know  venice and so on that's not  who's named  in the magna carta in the in the  constitution that's not who they're  concerned about right there's this great  sense of othering  the jewish minority of naming them as  this threat to the national identity  ethnic coherence and so on of the  nations of western europe and it's  already well underway in the year 1215  the irrationality of it the extent to  which it's fictionalizing economic and  political reality within europe right  it's already well underway here now let  me just ask you also  who was more of a threat  to the political destiny of england in  the year 1215. in the year 1215 when the  magna carta is read england is not a  terribly powerful nation it's really not  and if you're comparing it to any of the  countries  on the mainland  of europe whose influence  does england have to worry about and  curry favor with and send you know  who's really a threat to whichever  decisions the petty  dukes and lords and kings of england  might engage in for say the century  after italy  yeah rome  the vatican  and generally speaking again all of  those great emporiums of international  trade  on the mediterranean those are the  powerful cities in europe in this period  right  and yet already  we have this  conspiracy theory mentality  written into  the constitution of england into the  magna carta into one of the most  influential the most commonly read texts  in the british tradition  this video is going to talk about the  origins of multiculturalism  it's going to present my own critique of  multiculturalism  and it's going to talk about  anti-semitism  and this video is recorded at a time  when we have just had another mass  shooting in the united states of america  a mass shooting  from a white male  who wrote a manifesto  put it on the internet  declaring why it was he was carrying out  this shooting uh stating and explaining  his racist beliefs and you will note  that without feeling he needed to  explain this in any way  he treats it as a self-evident fact that  multiculturalism itself  is a jewish conspiracy  there's no footnote there  you know his fear this part has been  well documented in the mainstream press  his fear is what's called the  replacement theory or great replacement  his fear is the so-called genocide of  the white race and so on and so forth  but  it's not that he's afraid this is  happening  accidentally  it's not that he's afraid this is  happening because for example for  example he might believe that white  women are more attracted to black men  than they are to white men  on the on the spectrum of crazy  conspiracy theories  that would be a lot less crazy than  blaming the jews okay  some white women prefer black men  and it's a well-documented it's some  let's not get into percentages here  it's not because he thinks  that white men prefer japanese women  which is documented to some some some  not all white men not all okay  i think it's not that he just thinks  this is a result of the fact that people  in their sexual predilections and  preferences are naturally once they have  the option to travel around the world  and date people of any given ethnicity  are going to intermarry with various  exotic and foreign ethnicities in terms  of conspiracy theories  that would be a lot less crazy even if  you stated it in a racist and crazy way  no he doesn't think this is happening  accidentally  he doesn't think it's coming about due  to  economic circumstances in an unplanned  and unforeseen way  he thinks  this is a conspiracy  and for this conspiracy he blames who  the same people who were blamed by the  magna carta  the jews  [Laughter]  and it's not the topic of this video  but i would remind you  if you have actually read the new  testament  if you have just read the four gospels  of the new testament  it's important to emphasize that  anti-semitic conspiracy theories  begin right at the core  of christian doctrine with the insane  tendency to blame the jews within a work  of fiction that is supposedly but not  actually the work of jewish authors  so anti-semitism is also baked into  the bible  or i might say it's written into the  bible and baked into the whole history  of the christian church and if you leap  forward just a few centuries  did you ever hear this guy martin luther  yeah  he had a hit book called the jews and  their lies  you don't have to google it you don't  have to look it up on goodreads to  figure out that that's an anti-semitic  tract  um so  christianity  from its inception  paradoxically  was an anti-semitic religion  it's very comforting for christians to  think  that their religion began as pro-semitic  and that the anti-semitism crept in as a  form of corruption later on i do not  think that theory endures even the  slightest scrutiny that comes about from  simply a critical reading of the gospels  as primary source text  i'm happy to have you join me tonight  this is a completely unannounced  spontaneous live stream unscripted no  bullet point notes  i would just note the two things you can  help pardon me there are two things you  can do to help other people see this  video  one is hitting the thumbs up button  however many or a few of you see this  but the other is if you know someone  interested in these subjects  copy and paste the link and actually  send them the link in an email i'm not  telling you to spam people at random  it is only by you sending this video to  someone in a facebook message in an  email that they will ever see it  i have now uploaded  thousands of videos on controversial  topics  i have uploaded videos that were  censored for racism when they were  completely clear that they were  anti-racist i have had videos that were  censored for anti-semitism  and then google  the youtube corporation mysteriously  changed his mind when i sent them  evidence that i am myself a jew  so  there is a bizarre and unequal  censorship process that goes on here  this video may disappear completely  but more likely it will go into a  strange sort of  gray area and is neither blacklisted nor  whitelisted but gray  and those things change over time i had  one video that was really  impossible to get by searching within  youtube about  autism and a couple years later  it looked like they changed their  standards that was no longer gray listed  or or hidden that way on the other hand  i did some videos criticizing  the culture of pornography put it that  way um i'm not by the way it's a nuanced  critique it's not that i'm completely  against pornography or completely for it  i haven't kind of  yeah  i have a moderate position but there's a  lot of critical thinking there and  thinking about what the impacts of for  example starting your own only fan start  site and making your own pornography  will be in your life  uh several of those videos have now  disappeared from youtube entirely  whereas they got a huge number of views  for for several years so the standards  are always shifting but i can tell you  i think i've challenged youtube's  decision  to censor  demonetize or de-list  over 100 of my videos for racism or  anti-semitism i have had to write in  again and again again saying this video  is anti-racist not pro-racist this is a  critique of anti-semitism it's not  pro-anti-semitism uh  if you do not actually share the link  with a friend so they can see it  nobody is going to see it that is the  deal in the year 2022 here on youtube  and guys i think we should be positive  motivated we should say hey look  if we care about this content i mean in  the old days if you wanted a friend of  yours to read a book you had to buy a  copy of the book and give it to him no  it's not it's not too much to ask if you  care about the content  copy and paste the link somewhere and  let other people know what it meant to  you um  i have never  heard anyone  really critique multiculturalism as  policy  even reading in newspapers  is a very insincere game  being played by both the left and the  right at the moment and this is  reflected in the mass shooters manifesto  from boston so just to be clear this  fellow was 18 years old  yeah  melissa's off camera she cried wrong  oh right right right i'm sorry i  misspoke  18 year old from sorry 18 year old and  the shooting was carried out in buffalo  new york not boston i missed i'm  canadian  i i i confuse buffalo and boston i  should yeah sort of mistake i think  [Laughter]  um  two very different cities very different  history sorry so this is a mass shooting  carried out in buffalo new york by an 18  year old and he is not a particularly  intelligent or well-read  18 year old  however  what he is responding to is the most  shallow and i think insincere critique  of multiculturalism from the right wing  which goes as follows the claim is  that the left wing and in the united  states the democrat party  they are only supporting  multiculturalism they're only bringing  in all these different foreign ethnic  groups religion so and so forth because  they are confident that those foreigners  once they're in the united states will  vote for the democrat party that they  won't vote republican they won't vote  in canada  or in the united states  what percentage of new immigrants  are hispanic  what percentage  of new immigrants  are eastern european  of the hispanic and eastern european  immigrants  what percentage  believe abortion should be legal  and what percentage believe it should be  the reality is look i grew up surrounded  by all these immigrant groups right  it may be that there are people in the  democrat party who are so delusional  that they think immigrants from south  america central america  even spain europe european spain  if you're hispanic that includes spain  not just latin america and south america  there may be some members of the  democrat party who are delusional and  thinking all those people will vote for  the democrat party by default or because  of the color of their skin  they won't  a lot of hispanic people a lot of latino  people  are conservative in every sense of the  word  specific issue  like  abortion  a lot of them would be associated with  the republican party not the democrat  right  now those people those people  oh sorry and i could repeat myself  verbatim about eastern european  immigrants telling people from russia  people from ukraine got a lot of people  coming from ukraine this year right  i think i think those are real liberal  free thinking people who are where you  think they're not christian you think  they're not anti-semitic at all for that  matter we could get into the and again i  grew up really surrounded by all these  people i grew up in a totally  multicultural neighborhood in downtown  toronto i saw these uh new immigrants  coming in and got to hear their their  political outlook uh on the world so  look i mean i don't need to go on and on  about this  but um tell me something  these new immigrants  do you think they're pro-war  or anti-war  like one of the distinctive traits of  the american left is being anti-military  anti-war pro-peace regardless of the  regardless we're talking about vietnam  or iraq or afghanistan or frankly uh the  current war in ukraine there is this  anti-war agenda  on the left  is that  have you met nicaraguans have you met  one of them i mean you know i don't know  what we want to talk about the whole  hispanic part of the world for the whole  east champion part of the world now i  could go on in depth about what chinese  immigrants are like so i speak chinese i  speak read and write chinese i've lived  in china for a couple of years wouldn't  want to add it up exactly how much it is  i've lived in cambodia laos thailand i  know a lot about east asian culture um  new immigrants from china  have you ever talked to them about  abortion  have you talked to them  again it's deceptive  new everyone's from china regardless of  their religious beliefs  you might be surprised at just how  conservative they are so  there are several different ways in  which this particular conspiracy theory  um  is counterfactual is fictional can be  challenged or exploded and it may be  that people both on the left and on the  right believe it or participate in  these assumptions they work with these  assumptions  but the theory is that multiculturalism  is coming about as an intentional ploy  supported by the left wing in order to  replace conservative  white voters with these other ethnic  categories of voters and then the next  step into madness is to blame who  it's to blame the jews it's the point  that somehow  for some reason this is in israel's  interest or this is in the this is in  the interest of jewish people  you don't think there are a lot of  conservatives or right-wingers in israel  what percentage of people in israel are  pro-abortion what such people in israel  are  [Laughter]  jewish voters in america and jewish  political action committees in america  are they really left-wing are they have  you have you looked at this i mean again  it's sort of fictional and incompatible  with political reality in like six  different ways simultaneously  but people really believe this stuff and  again it's worthwhile to point out some  of these things  the um the writer of that manifesto and  like the writer of the christchurch  manifesto before the manifesto those  written in in new zealand some things he  feels he has to explain at some depth or  length  but  some things he feels he can just state  as self-evident facts very quickly  without demonstrating them and i think  it's really important to point out the  extent to which deep-seated anti-semitic  assumptions are built into our current  cultural discourse they're built into  our political discourse they're built  into what we think is a neutral  appraisal of of history  and then they shape the way we think  about the future  going forward  you know so i'm going to speak more  about that in a moment if anyone has  anything tremendously intelligent to say  in the audience i will read your  comments and i will respond to them if  not i'll carry on with uh with what's  what would otherwise be a monologue i  notice how hesitant you are to hit the  thumbs up guys i noticed  maybe some of you don't know where this  is heading maybe some of you think if  you hit the thumbs up now it's going to  be on your record it's going to be  traced back to you  um so rasmus says about the um the  censorship my own channel quote i think  it's fair to assume a lot of those bands  were caused by automatic processes so  machine interpretation of the use of  language based on keywords so erasmus  the particular instances i'm talking  about they've already gone through  several stages of human review  so the reality is more pathetic is that  people who don't understand english very  well have reviewed them it has long been  theorized that the bulk of youtube's  censorship employees are in india  now when they speak english a second  language you can imagine how hard it is  to distinguish like if if all you see is  a few key words you know like a video  mentions adolf hitler it's very easy for  them to click through and ban something  they just know it says something about  it  what if you're actually making quite a  nuanced statement you're making a  critique what if you're quoting a text  you're quoting what someone else said  and then before and after you criticize  it so no in the instances i'm talking  about it's not uh the work of machines  it is the work of remarkably incompetent  people and look  i sympathize to some extent i've studied  so many languages  i couldn't do that job in cambodian i  couldn't do it in lotion i couldn't do  it in chinese i said earlier i speak  read and write chinese  not remotely fluent in the chinese  language stay tuned and you will see in  the next few years how fluent i get in  how many languages part of the  action-packed plot twist coming up here  uh season two  of of alicia  so erasmus says now i'm quoting i'm not  this is not my opinion i'm quoting  erasmus quote  i am against multiculturalism because i  don't believe it's possible to mix all  these conflicting values and cultures  peacefully close quote  i don't think  peace  is the meaning of life  you know i think  conflict is an important part of life  and society  you know i don't think that's a good  enough reason  to be opposed to multiculturalism i  don't  and i'll say this  we now live if you live in any city  anywhere in the world we live in a world  where we can take multiculturalism for  granted to such an extent  do you know what it's like living in a  place  where nobody has ever tried chinese food  where there are no chinese restaurants  where there were no  indian restaurants  until recently that was very common  throughout throughout europe throughout  america people would live and die their  whole lives and never see a chinese  restaurant once unless they went to wait  in new york city or they went away to  paris or something he's one of the marks  of one of the great capitals of the  world  and indeed very often the actual foreign  cuisine you get there would not be uh  not be uh authentic at all it would be  some white man trying to present you  with his idea of what chinese or food  was supposed to taste like uh so on and  so forth because that kind of labor was  so so scarce so hard to get a chef  uh sent over from from china  and indeed whenever you're reading  historical attacks from the past it'll  it'll mention oh  we went to the russian tea room and for  the first time in my life i had borscht  how exciting oh  people used to live lives that were very  narrowly  monocultural  so i just caution you  now you know i don't think  peace and conflict i don't think  um  i don't think this is sufficient  to challenge or overturn the advantages  of multiculturalism which exists  um  so all of our comments  uh and this is not ods it's someone else  called over we have more than one person  called oliver in the audience um oliver  says quote there seems to be a way  bigger anti-war in ukraine sentiment  coming from conservatives in the united  states  well you know  um american politics is full of  extremely entertaining contradictions i  would recommend taking a look at the  absolutely horrible youtube channel  democracy now  i despise that channel  but if you look at democracy now you  will see the stereotypical left wing  the sky is falling anti-war sentiment  stereotypical blaming american  corporations for whatever is wrong in  venezuela like that is really the loony  left uh in america today so yeah anyway  but look i i completely admit there are  the contradictions that exist today are  very very peculiar including in the  elections that just happened in france  the extent to which the right wing was  pro vladimir putin and the right wing  was discredited by its positive  connections to vladimir putin in the  past okay  brett anderson says quote the left used  to be anti-war and they used to be in  favor of free speech  but lately many  democrats many people on the left are  going away from those values this is  what brad anderson says  um  i remember a quotation from a stand-up  comedian his name was alexi sales or  alexi sale something like that  he was a famous comedian in england many  decades ago  and he said that he was raised by  communists  and these people communists and far  left-wing socialists and so on he said  they they talked about peace  they said they were members of an  anti-war movement  but what i learned with time  was that they simply wanted russia to  win the war they simply wanted to have  wars that their side could win not that  the other side would win  and to be fair  is the right wing so much better  can we say anything good about  conservatives to contrast to this but  yes um there is unspeakable hypocrisy on  the left when it comes to matters of war  and peace and foreign policy  and and as unspeakable as it may be i  try to speak about it  i've grown up completely surrounded by  left-wing people so that's mostly what i  criticize but you know now on the  internet you can look up lectures  from the political science departments  at the really weird christian colleges  in the states i've seen a few of those  just a few so there will be a youtube  channel for  the college of jesus incarnate or  whatever the hell it's called in the  states and they'll have lectures on  politics and special guest speakers and  someone put up there  um  if you think the left is bad  take a good long look at what's going on  on the right you may you may have to  recalibrate your your assessment but yep  so these days both are bad  um  another another great question be cuba  what what does what did the left and the  right have to say about cuba in 2022  just as a litmus test as a sign of how  much things have changed since the 1970s  or even the 1980s or what have you  fascinating comment from from wicked  energy quote how come you don't join the  cathedrals with other political  commentators like yourself  i wonder if that was an autocorrect  error if there was some word other than  cathedral was meant in that sentence  yeah  so william mcgehen says  he has said it himself most of the new  people coming in from south of the  border are anti-abortion they are  conservative in many ways not just that  but it's a telling example  i continue the quotation quote however  the democrats will change what they say  on abortion once they see which way the  voters are  a suitably cynical member of my audience  gee do we have no idealists among us do  we have do we have no one to represent  the raw optimism of youth in this group  [Laughter]  oh and we get a shout out for noam  chomsky let me tell you something  me and noam chomsky  were the same age  you look hold up a photograph of noah  shopkin next to me who's better looking  okay vegan diet  vegan diet zero alcohol 200 push-ups a  day  do you want to look like me do you want  to literally know chomsky that's that's  how i win my political debates when i  get on stage with noam chomsky he's at  his podium of mine i let him speak first  and i sit there and go  me and this guy  we're the same age  [Laughter]  i'd also like to say that i uh  my my writing about the political  history of cambodia is very much  superior to noam chomsky  i just like to take this moment to plug  my own past work on the history and  politics of cambodia and contrast it to  gnomes chomsky's and say that i'm the  i'm the better master i'd like to think  my work on linguistics is better than  chopsticks too but you know it's topic  for another view  [Laughter]  yes  okay  if you read primary source historical  material from the dark ages in europe  which is not my special area of  expertise but i've just read a lot of  primary source historical and political  sources generally when you really read  sources from the dark ages  one of the most remarkable if subtle  features is the extent to which these  people did not even perceive  biological race they did not see people  that way  now some of you will say oh this is so  left-wing it's observed do you think  people were blind do you think they  couldn't see the difference between a  turk  and an egyptian  can you  this is 2022.  think about  all the photographs you've been exposed  to in your life even just passively you  read newspaper articles you watch the  news on tv you're constantly being given  contrasting images of different ethnic  groups where the cues the hints as to  which ethnic group they won't do are  quite subtle but you're shown them again  and again and again  and over decades you develop an  awareness a subtle sense of perhaps what  someone from iran looks like and what  say jerry seinfeld looks like and many  people based on appearance they might  think i'm from iran rather than being  from jerry seinfeld  you build it up  over decades of exposure to photographs  and contrasting examples a type of  exposure to ethnic differences that  people in the dark ages did not have and  still i ask you how confident are you  that you can distinguish a turk from an  egyptian  how confident are you  that you can  distinguish a greek  from a kazakh a man from kazakhstan  all right any any of these groups we get  into all right i grew up in downtown  toronto i basically met every  ethnic group of mankind and we can again  we can say this is one of the advantages  of multiculturalism i really did grew up  with contrasting the faces of people  from all over the world and sometimes to  really subtle differences i met people  from india  and i met people from the caribbean who  really looked like they were from india  i have met native americans people  indigenous to north america i have met  people from spain and italy who very  much look like  north american people all right so let's  just begin by recognizing the nature of  the problem and if you've had friends  who were born and raised in china  you will have had them take you aside  and say look i can't tell the difference  between these different  you how is it you americans and you  europeans you can see all these  categories and someone who grows up in  china they'll say look from my  perspective  you know they they can distinguish  different types of chinese people  but they don't have this refined sense  of these ethnic categories so the first  point is no people in the in the middle  ages they were not blind  but they were  hypersensitive to religious difference  and they were remarkably insensitive to  ethnic difference now the reasons for  being sensitive to religious difference  are to some extent obvious people were  being tortured to death because of their  denominational affiliation which side  you were on in a given war had  everything to do with your  denominational affiliation the main and  most fateful decision you made in life  was of committing to a religion and you  know  who it was you could marry who you're  who was you worked with everything about  your social life was defined  by your religion however  uh  for example  when jewish people migrated into these  places right  the difference was religious the  difference was political the difference  was  ethical in a sense they answered to a  different code of ethics different  scheduled beliefs or who gets into  heaven who gets into hell and precisely  why  that was a challenge  to ideas of ethnic nationalism  but the difference in their actual  appearance the difference in the  physionomy or skin color or face  it would really not be something a  medieval person could reliably  discern now  i remember uh saying to a friend of mine  who's greek  we were talking about the possibility of  this time melissa and i were considering  learning greek and  and living in greece permanently and  this friend of mine from greece  everyone's going to think it's kristin  leo it's not christianly  a friend from grace and she insisted to  me she said no no people there they will  assume you're born in greece and will  talk to you as a greek she said just  because the greek people are ethnically  so mixed there is no recognizable set of  facial features you they can't tell who  is and who isn't greek by looking at  them they're they're  such mixed features but they have no  sense the greek people themselves can't  identify who is  remember saying this you know um  is there one face that is what what an  italian person looks like again italy is  a long thin country is there one face is  there one set of of ethnic  characteristics for through the dark  ages through that period what was  emphasized what was fetishized was  religious difference religious  difference ran  deep  and ethnic differences were relatively  shallow and trivial  have you heard of the crusades  when europeans went to fight the  crusades so these are christian armies  armies representing christendom fighting  against armies representing islam  the people in the christian army were of  every color and every shade and hue  right everyone they could gather  together including people from north  africa right  now i'm not saying the composition  was exactly the same but both when they  fought wars with the ottoman empire with  what i want to call them with with the  saracens with the enemies of the  crusades right and in negotiations with  them  the europeans were surprised to  sometimes find themselves face to face  with a white man who looked totally  european still today with turkey you can  still there are turks who look like  white europeans just ethnically they're  appearance right  sometimes they would sit down to  negotiations and be face to face with  someone who was a black african  completely you know was  the opposite extreme in terms of skin  tone and of course a lot of the time  they'd be looking at someone who was a  mediterranean-looking person where you  really couldn't distinguish where from  the mediterranean you they looked like  they could be from anywhere  around the great circle of the  mediterranean coast you know person of  uh  they could be spanish to look at them  but you you really wouldn't be able they  could be italian they could be uh  sorry still today if you know i used to  have a i used to have a friend from  syria can i tell you what syrian people  look like really i mean these are this  thing okay  but in this context the difference  between  christian and muslim christian and jew  was deadly deadly serious whereas those  ethnic characteristics were not taken  too terribly seriously all right now  i'm just taking a moment to glance at  your at your uh comments you guys  again i see you're still afraid to hit  the thumbs up you don't know where this  discussion is going  if you hit thumbs up now you can change  your mind later and you can undo this  um  the origins of multiculturalism in the  european tradition that were very  directly transmitted to the united  states of america australia to european  colonies of this kind around the world  the origins have everything to do with  the unique historical experience  of anti-semitism  and the arguments for  tolerance that counteracted  anti-semitism now this has its own  history in england that's very easy to  look up and read about by the way the  passage of the laws for the tolerance of  the jews  it was much more dramatic and much more  sudden  in the context of the french revolution  in france these were broadly similar  i'm going to choose not to narrate the  british history for the purposes of  brevity in this video  and i just mentioned uh you can see this  in the writing of voltaire  shortly before the french revolution at  the time leading up to the french  revolution one of the  inspiring geniuses for the french  revolution was simply the awareness of  france that they had to catch up with  england that england was more advanced  in a variety of ways including  parliamentary democracy right and the  early stages of the french revolution  both the writing before the events  themselves and the events leading up to  the tennis courthouse those those first  relatively non-violent stages of the  revolution they were very much framed in  terms of catching up with  the  first law  debated and passed by the  revolutionaries the revolutionaries uh  in versailles  right  was an addict on the tolerance of the  jews  it was an addict to end  the  legal bigotry the officially sanctioned  anti-semitism that had carried on since  the dark ages and to normalize the  political and economic status of jewish  people in france and with this  came  the creation of the first modern form  of anti-semitism in the history of  europe  we had the first anti-semitic conspiracy  theories because there were royalists  there were traditionalists many of them  of course catholic  right what was their theory to explain  who were the dark forces who would who  were the puppet masters pulling the  strings behind this revolution  it became incredibly convenient to blame  the jews to claim that the french  revolution itself was the result of a  jewish conspiracy theory now the reality  of what was going on there was simply  that the enlightenment intellectuals  again partly just wanted to catch up  with england partly wanting to set aside  and overcome the darkness of the dark  ages this was simply part of their  agenda to have more of a religiously  pluralized society to end i don't know  how am i going to put this to end the  era of witch hunting at the era of um  uh spanish inquisition style  government-enforced uh orthodoxy and to  enter into a more modern pluralistic era  such as england already enjoyed now yes  in that period am i claiming there was  total freedom of conscience and freedom  of religion in england no but they were  several steps more advanced down that  road than france was and the type of  french intellectual who went and took  the tennis court oath and was involved  in the early stage of the french  revolution they were intensely  aware of that now  french revolution goes through a violent  period  and then long story short who comes into  power  napoleon bonaparte  it is very interesting to look at the  unique  anti-racism of napoleon when it comes to  jews he was  anti-anti-semitic he was a proponent of  the jews of treating the jews well and  treating them equally and so on and so  forth  he was totally racist against black  people at the same time  napoleon was a terrible person but again  the positive connection between napoleon  and judaism  this provided yet more fuel for the  anti-semitic conspiracy theory fire that  in some ways went on unabated ever after  taking on new permutations and and  targets what have you right  now um  it's also interesting i mean i think  in every instance you want to talk about  anti-semitism  one part of it is blaming the jews  anti-semitic conspiracy theories  specifically  but then there's also a question of kind  of who are you letting off the hook who  are you not blaming by redirecting  interest towards uh you know this  anti-semitic conspiracy theory  this type of theory allows the people of  france  um to ignore the extent to which the  people who were  crying out for the destruction of the  catholic church were themselves  catholics  that actually  kind of 99 of the energy and intensity  of the french revolution came from  christian people who were pissed off  with christianity we're fed up with who  didn't like the status quo with  christianity now for the members of my  audience all of you are willing to hear  that say oh yeah well  makes sense the french revolution  primarily fought by french people yes  the people looting and pillaging  catholic churches at the time  the people it did happen the people  raping nuns yes  pretty much all of them themselves  christians not catholic and this at this  period of violent that people yeah  um  it seems to be much easier for people to  live with this this issue of blaming  a foreign entity  and as i say there can be no doubt that  in the development of modern european  national consciousness  the  the first paradigm  for multiculturalism only involved two  cultures  christendom and judaism  and the assumptions about how  multiculturalism would work completely  developed out of  frankly the oppression of jews by  christians  so a fascinating case study for this is  the city of prague  prague is in the czech republic is it  now called czechia  you tell me and would you even know  where i'm talking about if i say czechia  instead of the czech republic formerly  known as czechoslovakia before anyway  prague  um  in the dark ages  the city of prague had a jewish ghetto  the word ghetto today does not mean what  it meant then  okay  there was a law  that every night  all of the jews would be placed behind  bars  there was literally a gate with metal  bars there was fence and every night the  mayor himself  was supposed to put a chain with a big  ornamental lock on the bars to lock away  the jews within this one neighborhood  their ability to leave that neighborhood  briefly this was a this was  ghettoization this was a ghetto in the  true  sense of the word and periodically  there would be outbreaks of hysteria  where people would blame this jewish  neighborhood this this ghetto for all  the problems  in their own society so um one this is a  real historical example there was a  theory you know i'm sorry in every  culture every so often people go missing  whether they're murdered or they run  away or what have you there was this  theory that whenever a small christian  child would disappear and i mean you  know some of these tragedies are the  same as what we have today but you know  it could be they ran away to join the  circus it could be  um their parents got divorced and they  ran away to be with their father about  their mother you don't know what the  story is but it could be some horrible  terrible thing out of this child could  just be they were killed or whatever but  when a child would disappear  there was this widespread theory this is  in prague  in case you think  talk about the darkness of the dark ages  that this was because the jews had a  ceremonial need  for human blood preferably from from  young virgin children um and this is  this makes even more absurd but they  really believe this why  to produce matzah to produce this  special sacred kind of bread  the show bread used in uh in jewish  rituals  if you have ever seen  or eaten mutton  it's a white cracker there's like  there's nowhere like how you could  believe of all the food if it was  pudding or something if it was some it  was a sausage or something you could  think there's human blood in there but  this was a type of flat bread right  ceremonial flatbread i don't think it  has any ingredients other than  water salt and flour i mean maybe you  know  it's a very it's a very simple  cracker-like flatbread but even if they  were making it more like a pita bread at  that time which is possible historically  like it's really this is really crazy  and they there would be violence they'd  go and kill  jews and reprisal killings they'd go and  you know try to  try to burn the ghetto down kind of  thing to get to get revenge against them  all right  so you could say this is phase one  of multiculturalism  in the history of europe now again  prague is a great example and i am not  saying prague is unique you will find  throughout the whole of  western europe and central europe  the same pattern plays out mutatus  mutants now i do i do think when you get  into the far east of europe  further east than prague things are a  little bit different you could argue  whether they're better or worse  uh i do think in the history of greece  also things would be different we're  talking about western europe it's pretty  much the same pattern that plays out  here with prague  the remarkable thing about  jews as immigrant communities  in these cities  is that they didn't really have  a powerful connection to some kind of  external home country  right  it's not as if they were still involved  in the politics of israel  a place that really only existed as an  abstract idea  not as an actual not as a place you were  sending postcards to right israel was  something from the ancient past you know  the land mass was still there  but these were people living in in  prague or wherever they were in europe  who really in terms of the language and  politics were quite committed to living  in europe even if they were somewhat  more cosmopolitan  than uh than other europeans even had  connections between the different jewish  diaspora communities this sort of thing  you know it wasn't the case that there  was some other language  and the hebrew language itself really  was a dead language  many people will say oh well they  continued reading and writing hebrew for  the sake of the bible  when you look into it  the jewish community in greece  would read the bible in greek  the septuagint have you heard of it it's  kind of historically significant it's  kind of the single most historically  significant thing in the history of  europe is that actually the jewish  people of greece did not read their  scriptures in hebrew they read it in  greek in fact  not only did they read and write greek  they did so to such an extent that there  is a separate dialect  of greek that's called jewish greek and  it's not hebrew it's just the jewish  style of view there were so many  centuries with so many thousands of  jewish people living continuously from  greece and greece is geographically not  that far removed from  egypt israel however you want to put it  the middle east they're close enough to  be in  in contact right jews became part of  the history of greece right  and yeah  in case you haven't heard the jewish  people and their religion had a  transforming effect on greece on rome  and on every other corner of europe so  the influence was mutual to say the  least right  um  so what happens in a city like prague is  that you go through a series of stages  where at the beginning  total isolation quarantine  fear of contagion um hysterical  conspiracy theories all right  supernatural fear of jewish people this  other culture of this other religion  which again is not based on ethnic  characteristics but it reflects a  society where also different forms of  christianity are actively persecuting  each other really it's the death penalty  for any kind of free thinking and  christianity very slight differences  between uh so look at the persecution of  the cathars the cathars are not  catholics  the catholics killed the cathars on and  on it goes very very small differences  in doctrine could justify you being  massacred  um not even the knights templar were  orthodox enough for the catholic church  sooner or later they had to go you know  um this constant killing of people over  minor doctrinal differences but here in  the midst of your city was a ghetto  defined with gates and fences and chains  where there was a totally different  ethical system totally different  religion and and it was tolerated but  just barely then you go through a series  of steps it's happened in prague very  discreetly you know okay  should we  take down the chains  should we take down the fences should we  give these people the right to buy rent  our own property or operate shops  outside of  the ghetto should we allow them  to intermarry  with the rest of the population should  we allow them to attend the same schools  should we allow them to train for the  same professions  hold the same jobs  step by step  this foreign culture is accepted and  normalized and very significantly  in prague  i know this because i've seen the text  myself you actually get an intellectual  counter current where there are jews  writing and saying look we're going to  lose everything that's special about  this community we've had if we if we go  down this road of assimilating if we  embrace this if we start intermarrying  and going to the same schools as these  people and eating their food and so on  and so forth right and that there were  jews and there were jews who  wrote and published pamphlets and i  think in some cases books you know  normally pamphlet for this kind of  political statement is what survives  history who really felt something  special been created frankly by this  kind of oppression and that it was going  to be lost and it would be lost and it  is lost and it's gone step by step in  each of these ghettos cease to be  ghettos and the  frankly insane fear  of jews as the  definitive other the definitive resident  alien right again down to and including  the british magna carta it's the other  nationality it's the only other  nationality or ethnicity mentioned in  the magna carta the scots  the corn corn wall welsh no that seems  to matter  is this mono mania for this one other no  matter how tiny this ethnic minority  because it's such a challenge to  orthodox notion of what society is  supposed to be in the dark ages  and then out of this  comes a fascinating form of optimism  because when the chains came down when  the gates of the ghetto opened up  what did the bumpkins of christendom  discover they discovered that in fact  the the jews were no different from you  and i that in fact we could live  together that in fact in so many ways we  were all the same which is hardly  surprising because you already had  centuries of assimilation that had taken  place right but it's assimilation that  was to some extent masked by this  incredibly intense you know racism that  created a veil between the two  communities okay  we jump forward to the aftermath of  world war ii and uh the creation of our  modern multicultural doctrine all right  there was this thing that happened in  world war ii  right  and at the end of it  there was a political consensus  if any of you know of any document where  the leaders of the western world  actually debated this i'd be interested  to see it  there were sorry to give an example  uh the peace treaty that was signed with  italy was debated for an unbelievable  length of time after the end of world  war ii there's this gap where world war  ii is over but the political status of  italy remains unresolved another example  i've just been reminded of by i listened  to the news from japan uh the political  status of okinawa but actually for i  think more than 10 years or so sorry for  eight years the court of views okinawa  was simply an american colony it was  nowhere part of japan the americans  conquered it and ruled it directly it's  american territory and then at a certain  point it was gifted back to japanese so  all kinds of weird gray area situations  that didn't get resolved that took a  long time to negotiate and detail  exactly what they wanted to do  but you know the experience of world war  ii  and the you know unspeakable persecution  of the jews by the nazis and then the  positive experience of the host  countries receiving these people as  refugees  the perception was that what refugees  meant were people like einstein coming  to live among you that there were these  brilliant scientists brilliant artists  brilliant intellectuals who were being  persecuted  in germany and this was more difficult  to deal with  also there were a lot of jews being  persecuted in the soviet union under  joseph stalin now that was inconvenient  because the western press the western  very much under the control of the u.s  government in america it was really a  government plot they were saying all  these positive things about joseph  stalin  because stalin was supposedly your ally  in fighting against hitler right there  was a little bit difficult to admit this  yeah it's totally immoral totally evil  what uh  what roosevelt did um with uh  with stalin that way the plot to anyway  have this alliance with stone okay  but  this is a pure this is a period of  unbelievable optimism about refugee  policy and multiculturalism and  unbelievable horror at the opposite  nobody wants to be like the nazis nobody  wants to be like joseph stalin and  everyone recognizes that when you rescue  these people when you just let them move  in  for one thing during that period a lot  of the jewish people who were fleeing  for their lives they brought with them a  high level of education some kind of  profession a fair bit of money and  here's the point again no  particular attachment  to a home country like israel  the israel they were connected to was an  abstract idea there was an it's like my  connection to athens i have no  connection to athens doesn't exist today  there's an ancient idea of athens  there's an idea of democracy you know  what i mean but i have some good the  athens doesn't actually exist today i  have no connection to right so they were  connected by an idea of israel there's  certain cultural ideas that come out of  the jewish tradition that still  powerfully you know united jewish people  which i could wax philosophical about  right  but there was no comparison between the  jewish experience of being a refugee in  the aftermath of the holocaust  and the experience of someone who now in  2022  packs up their bags and moves the united  states of america from china  as it exists today  okay  the vast majority of people who move  from china to america or who moved from  india to america today i'm just gonna  use two examples  they will remain  committed to  politics in china politics in india  politics in their home country they will  continue listening to the news  about politics and india politics and  china politics and their home country  they will remain passionate about the  political questions that are determining  the future of india the future of of  china right now the people who are  escaping ukraine due to the war  temporarily or permanently  let's say they immigrate to canada do  you think they're going to become  fascinated by canadian politics by  canadian culture no it's completely  understandable they are going to remain  deeply committed to and emotionally  involved with  the politics the questions of their home  country even if it is a home country  they are fleeing and i would point out  this is another community and language  i've really studied and put years into  this is true even with cambodia  cambodia is one of the most extreme  disasters in the history of the world i  mean if we're going to make a top 10 you  know  it's somewhere in the top 10 guys  even people who were fleeing starvation  and persecution  from communist cambodia some of them ran  away to paris some of them ran away to  long beach california  they really powerfully remained  connected to cambodia  committed to cambodia and in some ways  it's a beautiful thing i'm sorry you  know i'm kind of a fan of cambodian  politics and cambodian people i've  studied the campaign lived in cambodia  i've lived in work there are ways in  which i can  appreciate this right  but the political leaders who were part  of this i think unexamined consensus  about immigration and refugee policy at  the end of world war ii after the nazis  had been defeated  on a very deep level they assumed that  we were taking the final step out of the  dark ages out of the attitudes of the  the ghetto and the chains around the  jewish neighborhood into this modern era  where we embrace all communities the  same way that the people of prague had  eventually embraced the jewish minority  right there are a few bumps along the  way there right where we learn the  lesson oh it's really for the best if  you open up the gates let everyone get  married to each other let everyone rent  houses wherever they want to rent them  let's all just live together and things  work out splendidly right and there is  this profound asymmetry  between this  asymmetrical relationship between  oppressive christendom judaism as a  minority culture within it right and the  current so-called mosaic strategy of  inviting in immigrants from china from  india from cambodia all simultaneously  if you have relocated from cambodia to  paris  the cambodia you are connected to in  your mind in your heart  is not an abstract idea  it is not the ancient israel of the  bible  it is not the ancient athens that i in  my heart i'm connected to right  it is a real place and you send emails  back and forth every day and you can  still you can watch their tv shows i've  known so many i've known so many  immigrants do that i've known so many  runs in canada and they never learn  english because the minute they get home  from school they're watching tv in  korean uh you know if they're a korean  family the minute they get home from  school they're watching tv and their  their parents native tongue they're  talking their parents their tongue  that's what the tv they watch i'll  always remember being on this this  airplane with a woman who was coming  back to canada from taiwan  and she had a stack of all of the gossip  magazines now these are the really  crappy gossip magazines it's just about  the sex lives of the actors who are in  soap operas in taiwan and she had it  like like sir she's sitting in the  airplane seat it's like it's this huge  stack of i'm not kidding she was not she  was a taiwanese woman she wasn't a huge  woman she had this huge stack of these  gossip and i'm assuming that she didn't  want them to get messed up in her  luggage  like i don't know she wasn't going to  read them all during the flight and you  know i was saying they're oh so you got  you're reading for the next five years  once you're back in canada you're going  to watch all the soap once you get back  to canada you're going to watch  taiwanese soap operas in chinese you're  going to read these magazines right they  remain utterly immersed in and committed  to that language that culture that that  political reality and now you know  there's more than one side of this  where's our book on on china uh china  within canada maybe we can't find it do  you remember i have that book about uh  the panda has claws  i think it's on that  huh  we can't find it because we're reading  it all right it's okay don't worry about  it there have been several books written  about the fear that immigrants from  china remain  loyal to china once they're in oh there  it is okay sorry it's underneath the  camera so i can't move it  anyway if the panda has claws is a  better title it's not that [ __ ] the  panda has claws  um  [Laughter]  also a great name [ __ ] oh i won't say  i was i used to get complaints saying  that my laughter is fake i was like how  could you possibly fake that  i may be laughing for reasons that are  stupid but it's not fake okay  there's sincere stupidity on my part all  right so you guys have probably heard  especially lately i just shared a link  on patreon where there was actually a  fear that the communists within the  black lives matter movement were  connected to communists and communist  china and there's this fear that  immigrants from china remain politically  loyal to the communist party in china  there's this kind of thing that's kind  of espionage  yeah well you know my fear is actually  much more simple  is that you grow up in a city like  toronto and you have an unequal mutually  unintelligible society where a very  small percentage of the population is  really committed to the political future  of toronto same for vancouver same for  every other city that you have a whole  lot of people for whom toronto is just a  place they earn money and their real  life their real emotional life their  real political life everything they care  about  right is back in india is back in china  that their influence it's not really  that i'm concerned that they're working  as uh  secret agents for china or secret agents  from india or anything else  it's just that they are not really  participating in the democracy and the  debates and the contention for the  future of canada which by the way may  not even require  assimilation i don't think it does  i think it requires a type of commitment  right and that commitment i mean it's  not like the jewish people of europe  it's not like with some of some kind of  virtue they had no choice you're talking  about jewish communities they've been in  paris for 300 years been in athens for a  thousand years and they their connection  to israel as i say is you know  largely an abstract one that's not  what's happened with uh with  multiculturalism  so my concern is about the hollowing out  of democracy the lowering of  intellectual standards in our society  which i'll explain in just one moment  it's not really any of the more um  uh  conspiratorial theories  about uh about multiculturalism as such  and the great irony i want to draw your  attention to in this in this video is  that we live in a time when a series of  mass murderers including the christ  church shooter the christ church shooter  in new zealand  and the buffalo new york shooter just uh  just a few days ago they both treat it  as an unquestioned fact that the problem  of multiculturalism is created by and  for  the jews for this jewish conspiracy a  jewish conspiracy we can already see  brewing in the writing of the magna  carta and the choice to basically blame  the development of modern banking on the  jewish minority and to refuse to see its  real origins in italy specifically and  especially  in the city of genoa  um  i would point out  shakespeare's the merchant of venice  is set in venice  this is one of the most influential  sources of anti-semitism i mean it's an  incredible it's a  it's an anti-semitic manifesto uh  shakespeare's merchant of venice and it  doesn't occur to shakespeare that there  are bankers in venice and there are  bankers in genoa and there are bankers  in florence and in fact the flourishing  of the banking industry eventually  throughout all of europe but beginning  in italy and the in the mediterranean  that in fact this is not a jewish  conspiracy it's in fact the genoese and  the florentines themselves so on and so  forth and oh yeah you know not too much  later just a few steps behind within  those centuries who was it that was  developing banking in uh  in holland and in the netherlands in the  local in amsterdam the great banks  so again the extent to which these  things are uh you know  there's a mono mania in this period for  for for blaming the jews  um  i've said several times to several  different people recently that when i  was a boy  it was rare and remarkable to have a  taxi driver  who was erudite and well-read  and i have several memories of this in  england  when i was in england with my father  and my father would strike up  conversation with the taxi driver and  the tax driver would turn out to be a  well-read intelligent opinionated person  they'd talk about politics so they talk  about whatever the subject was during  the ride  and anyway  this often challenged my father's  opinion of himself as a highly  intelligent well-read person  and you really felt the dynamism of  british democracy that's where does  democracy exist  it exists in the pubs it exists in the  coffee shops it exists in the taxi cabs  or else it doesn't exist at all  democracy isn't something that only  exists on a chalkboard in a university  classroom right you have to have these  kinds of people participating you know  this is the you know harnessing of  imagination and interest and energy  from the population as a whole now when  i was in toronto as a boy or when you're  in toronto now  um  it's not remarkable  to have a taxi driver who is well read  and intelligent it's remarkable to have  a taxi driver who speaks english at all  what you struggle with is what you live  with is the expectation not just with  your taxi driver we went to a bank  recently not my regular bank it was for  difference it was a bank other than the  one i normally go to and every single  person we dealt with at the bank spoke  english very poorly and was struggling  with a with an accent and each person's  had a completely different accent  whether it's at the bank it's at the  grocery store it's with you know you're  you're  taking a taxi right the expectation for  the level of conversation of discourse  right it's lower and lower and lower in  the aftermath of world war ii when there  was this tremendous  enthusiasm oh yeah yeah  jewish refugees jewish immigration like  uh  einstein and mark rothko and you know  it's kind of oh yeah there seemed to be  all these great luminaries all these  great intellectuals all this potential  and all these entrepreneurs all these  wonderful people who were again some of  them escaping hitler some of them  escaping joseph stalin some of them  escaping other countries in europe where  they were just meant to feel  uncomfortable made to feel uncomfortable  you know  maybe they weren't quite as anti-semitic  as as germany but nevertheless people  had reasons to get up and move to new  york or montreal or move somewhere they  could they could move to you know this  great great re-scattering of the  surviving jewish population in the world  after the holocaust you know if you had  a jewish taxi driver in new york in the  1930s  what are your expectations and then  again what are your expectations for how  society works as a whole i don't think  it's as simple as talking about  assimilation i don't i really think it  has to do with commitment to a place you  know by the way uh  let's be fair noam chomsky  i've seen him describe growing up i i  think in the 1930s if i'm off by a few  sorry growing up many many decades ago  he's very elderly i don't know if he's  mad elderly sorry  maybe the 1950s let's let's change our  estimate but i remember him describing  growing up  in a jewish neighborhood  and the intensity of the debates about  politics around what was then a  newspaper stand there was a newspaper  stand that had some cheap wooden chairs  and you know people would buy the  newspaper and they might buy a magazine  i forget if they also bought uh  cigarettes and this kind of thing you  know  forget but  predominantly newspapers and magazines  and old jewish men would stand around  and really seriously talk about politics  they'd really take time out of their day  there was no internet  you know and and he credited this he  said you know so he was a child looking  at this i think even if this was a few  decades later this was really the old  culture of the 1930s okay let me ask you  which country's politics were they  talking about so passionately  they were talking about american  politics they were reading american  newspapers they were committed to and  debating and concerned about the future  of the united states of america all  right now again partly  so my own family contains jewish  immigrants probably they had no choice  so when my jewish grandfather left  russia and came to canada he had no way  he could continue participating in  politics of russia russia was a  communist dictatorship at that time also  intensely anti-semitic he's cut off from  it there was really no way he could  participate in the politics of israel  israel ceased to be an abstract idea and  became a very real political entity but  one he's totally cut off from he didn't  speak hebrew probably nobody in his  family had spoken hebrew for a thousand  years  how far back would you have to go to  find a hebrew speaking person and that  lineage of my of my family other jews in  my family came from poland once they  arrived in canada do you think they gave  a [ __ ] do you think they could even name  the prime minister of poland could they  tell you anything about were they  reading newspapers where they go again  the internet didn't exist they weren't  they weren't reading magazines before or  watching movies from poland  you know it's true some of the food  continued some of them continued eating  some polish style food but that's the  last echo politically the politics they  cared about the politics of canada the  palestinian states they were really  committed to the place and that is  indeed why yourself one thing you saw of  course the jewish people joining the  armies and all these conflicts jews  including you know my own ancestors  fought in the canadian army fought in  the american army right but they were  also involved in urban planning and you  know getting elected at city hall or  lobbying city hall and so on you know  the intense culture of concern and by  the way if you don't know jewish people  were massively overrepresented in terms  of black civil rights as a movement it's  not hard to figure out why there were a  lot of jewish people who saw the  injustice of how blacks were treated and  they simply were not part of the culture  of compromise that developed you know  for white christians who've been in  america for a few centuries longer they  were more uncomfortable with it and more  jews were involved in that struggle so  you know i mean this kind of thing  the question is not politicized versus  depoliticized i've met sri lankan  immigrants who are very politicized the  politics they hear about are the  politics of sri lanka and they would go  and talk to their member of parliament  in canada  about sri lanka  like when they go and talk to canadian  politicians they're saying hey the  canadian government should do more to  help sri lanka  i you know and i'm sorry every immigrant  group today the modern immigration  phenom the modern refugee phenom this  same pattern plays out and i don't blame  them i i don't vilify them for it right  the problem i point to it's not  conspiratorial in nature it doesn't have  to do with espionage or undermining the  uh  the politics of the status quo right  what i'm really concerned about is the  hollowing out of our already hollow  democracy i don't look back to some  golden age of the pastor guys i don't  think democracy was better in the 1930s  i think it was terrible in the 1930s and  i think it's even worse now it's like  okay it was terrible then and it's  terrible now in in different ways what  can i tell you we barely had any claim  to be a democracy in the past and i see  it further hollowing out and emptying  okay  look i myself went to multicultural  schools  okay  some of you you have a sense of this you  have a poetry writing assignment okay  did you go to a school where everyone  spoke english as their first language  fluently and there was actually a  competition for who could write the most  brilliant poem the most clever poem  where someone got patted on the head by  the teacher and said good you did a good  job okay i went to school with a whole  bunch of chilean refugees at that time  there were a lot of refugees from chile  there were kids from jamaica there were  i remember very vividly one korean guy  who couldn't speak a single word of  english when he joined her class he  could do the math couldn't do any of the  other lessons and even oh i remember a  pretty russian girl in my class but  still she spoke i saw her speaking  russian she still spoke russian as a  first language her parents only spoke  russian not english and she was growing  up  trying to speak  both languages i remember that came up  in class several times okay i had all  the advantages of a multicultural  upbringing and a really intensely  multicultural school in a multicultural  part of town and by the way most of the  cultures were white  greek people count as white okay  but let me tell you something the greeks  they're from another culture they speak  a different language they do greek  people their parents spoke greek like  that was the reality oh yeah and i  remember that i remember a friend of  mine telling me  um so this is maybe an interesting  contrast to noam chomsky's experience i  remember where the shop is too i forget  if i showed it to you melissa there's a  particular shop around the corner from  my my school very much the neighborhood  i grew up in and this friend of mine  told me i didn't witness myself he said  you know a couple weeks ago he told me  he was going past here there was this  group of old greek men standing here and  there was still it wasn't a newspaper  stand but it was a convenience store  that sold newspapers and other things  and there were these old greek men  and they were angrily shouting at each  other and cussing each other out he said  i wanted to know what the political  debate was about what it was that we're  discussing so he asked his dad and his i  remember this guy's dad was an  interesting character his dad went over  and stuck his nose in like you know what  are you guys debating you know and what  the greeks were debating so angrily was  whether alexander the great  was a macedonian or a greek  that's what  [Laughter]  might be they're greek they're white  they speak another language they're from  another culture and they are still  committed to the politics of greece the  russians were still committed to the  politics of russia the pattern we have  today these people they're not committed  to the police place and in the classroom  when i'm sitting there okay  i  cannot have a poetry reading competition  with the new immigrant from korea with  the new immigrant from russia with the  new immigrants from chile we can't all  right instead of developing really  sophisticated discourse you have a  situation where the people who speak  english as  their first language are in a situation  of perpetual privilege  like it's really easy for me to get an a  plus on this book report right and where  it's an enormous struggle for the  children of the new immigrants and when  you're in a situation where they're the  majority or even just a plurality  they're a significant percentage of the  kids in the classroom right  all of the education  has to come down to their level right  the same way when you take a taxi ride  with a driver who can just barely speak  your language you can just communicate  where you're going on the map and  go this way now that then that's it  right the quality and caliber  of your conversation right it's going to  have to come down to that minimum level  teachers and teacher may have 40  students  now they've got a struggle not with  teaching you more sophisticated and  erudite concepts but the simplest level  of concepts that those kids can handle  and then if you do anything more  advanced still so much of the teachers  time and energy is going to have to go  to helping those weakest students and  what happens if you don't  what happens if you have an education  system that's pitched to the most  talented 10 percent the main talent  we're talking about here is fluency in  the english language that's what's  really differentiating these people so  then you'd have lessons that are more  sophisticated and erudite and that only  the kids who speak english as a first  language can really understand and the  others are  left behind  it doesn't end  in primary school  it doesn't end  in high school  this is a massive problem  at the university level  and for many of us because the  universities want to make money inviting  in foreign transfer students the  universities are  more multicultural the level of english  being spoken is  lower the percentage of students who  speak english as a second language or  who barely speak english at all  is tremendous  and i have been in those situations  again and again i mean i'm sorry my  whole life i've been in university in  indiana university for so many years  when i say between  1997 and 2021 or something right i've  been in university classrooms all the  time  where  you know it's meaningless for me to be  brilliant it's meaningless for me to be  erudite or well-read i'm competing with  people who are just struggling to read  the book at all i'm competing with  people who put up their hands and are  asking in broken english sir i don't  understand why i got this wrong on the  test all right and we don't have  philosophical debates we don't have  political discussions we have plotting  low-level discussions with students who  can barely  can barely write an essay in english  that's the real test this can you write  essays in english where they're trying  to scrape out a few extra  percentage points because you know they  don't have they don't really have the  minimum requirements to attend high  school  in english but here they are now in  university okay  it doesn't stop in primary school it  doesn't stop in high school it doesn't  stop in university  it continues in parliament  and it continues  at the police station  i've been interrogated  by cops  who can't speak english  i've been interrogated by cops who can't  speak english in  foreign countries  or i'm making the effort to speak their  language  you know what's scarier  being interrogated by a cop who can  barely speak english who is right here  in canada  in this way  you know  multiculturalism has undermined the  assumptions that made our barely  functional society  barely function  i don't have any of the delusions that  go into the make america great again  anti-immigrant movement  i don't think america was great in the  past i don't think canada has some  golden age that we can return to  i think  the golden age  is in the future  i think america really can be  something great  i think america doesn't have democracy  yet  but i think that it is uniquely  well positioned  now  to achieve